 Linux commands with an example:

1. pwd-Prints the name of the working directory.
	example- /bin/pwd
		/home/abc.
2. vi-It is the default editor that comes with the UNIX operating system(visual editor)
	example-vi filename
		opens the file to be edited.

3. touch-This changes the timestamps
	example-touch file.txt
		If file.txt exists then the touch updates the access and modification times to the current time.
		 If file.txt doesn't exist, a new empty file is created.

4. mkdir-This is used to create new directories.
	example-mkdir dir
		creates a new directory named dir.

5. rm-This is used to delete either files or directories.
	example- rm dir	
		deletes the directory dir.

6. ls- This is used to list the contents in the directory.
	example- ls dir
		lists the contents present in the directory dir.

7. echo-This is used to display the line of text.
	example-echo hey
		displays hey.

8. cat-This is used to concatenate two files together.
	example-cat file1.txt file2.txt
		will print the files together as a single file.

9. who-This is used to display who is logged into the system.
	example- who
		displays the username, line, and time of all currently logged-in sessions.

10. cd-This command is used to change the working directory.
	example- cd /
		moves to the  root directory.

11. date- This command is used to display the date of the system.
	example-date
		dsiplays the system date.

12. cal-This command is used to display the calender.
	example- cal
		displays the calender for this month.

13. mv- This command is used to move or rename files.
	example- mv file.txt ../
		this moves the file to parent directory.

14. cp-This is used to make a copy of files or directories.
	example- cp org.text new.txt
		the org is the original file that is to be copied and new is the copy of org file.

15. which-This is used to locate the executable files and returns their path.
	example- which -a filename
		prints all the matching pathnames of each matching filename.
